# CMSC-312-OS-Simulator
This repository contains my implementation of the os simulation project assigned to us for CSMC 312 course.

Operating System Simulator
Description:
This project implements a simulation of the unix process cycles. A unix process is stateful and has
to go through multiple states from its inception to demise. These being new, ready, running, waiting
and exit. The simulation consists of several process templates that are loaded at the start of the
program. A number of processes specified in the program are generated by randomly selecting the
templates. These processes then follow the unix execution pattern through a round robin execution
scheme. To facilitate the user, a command line UI is provided, it shows every process in the state it's
currently using using a ncurses like table. Once all of the processes have finished execution and
moved to the exit state, the program halts and prints a message.
Requirements
The os simulator has been programmed in Java using Java17 sdk and runtime. Since it’s written in
java it’s portable and does not require a specific os to run. No OS specific resources have been
used to further solidify its portability. The program runs in a terminal, and will look best when used
with 120 columns (at least) visible. Compilation and execution instruction will follow next.
Execution Instructions
In order to execute the program, change the directory of the terminal to the folder with the source
code. The principle code lies in app java class hence using the following command compile app.java
file.

> javac app.java

Once the code has successfully compiled, just run it using the following command:

> java app

Code Breakdown
1) App.java:
This class consists of the main function required for execution. It’s responsible for
using the ProgramTemplate class to load the templates, PCB class to create process
control blocks from the templates, and also for implementing the round robin
execution cycle. The UI is also rendered here.
2) ProgramTemplate.java
This class implements the mechanism for reading, parsing and loading the process
templates provided in the templates folder. Its constructor returns an object that can
be used to create PCB objects using the specified process template at runtime.
3) PCB.java
This class is responsible for handling the metadata that is part and parcel of every
unix process. It implements the process control block and stores information such as
the process id, the name of the process, the code content as well as the required
cycles for each operation.
